---
url: http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/bethblog/~3/LePtycYP4ak/
created_at: 2011-05-13 17:01 UTC
published: false
title: 'Book:  A Great How-To On Creating Social Content'
tags: []
---

I would say just start with Maslow's Hierarchy:<br><br>1. Blog quotes from other articles, blogs, reports, etc. Shit, quote your own emails if necessary. No commentary, just a one sentence citation/context. If you can't do this, don't move on to the next steps (heck, if you can't do this, you clearly are not engaged at all with your work). Duration: 15 min (assuming light editing/anxiety over appropriateness)<br><br>2. Same quotes as #1, but this time lightly criticize, compare or contrast between them or somehow contemporize. If you've built up a collection of quotes, it's fairly easy to pull 2 contrasting ones and write a light paragraph to fit between them with your analysis. Length: 30 min.(assuming you already have the quotes and can bang out a quick explanatory connection). <br><br>3. Write down a conversation that has already taken place. This requires a higher level of literacy, but you're basically rehashing the arguments you've already made---with maybe a brief conclusion where you say "I should have explained x better" (but don't actually explain it, just acknowledge you recognize the holes and let them sit). Duration: ~1 hour (depending on complexity and your level of honesty in narrative)<br><br>4. Original analysis: avoid at all costs. People who can bang out 500-1000 words of original, longform analysis are in full-time academic, strategy, creative or executive roles where they can probably carve out 4 hours for writing (writing may be their only job) and be none the worse. Or else they are top 1% writers. Or are sociopaths. Duration: longer than most of our jobs allow.
